
## Events Overview

# History of Black Mesa
Founded in 1952 by the University of Virginia, United States Department of Energy, Lockheed Martin, and several members of the International Science Council, the Black Mesa Corproation was to be a government supervised, private research foundation. Originally based in Virginia, Black Mesa's first was laboritory titled "Black Mesa One" served to be a testing ground for a variety of atomic power solutions.

 In 1955, Black Mesa came under the administration of a young genius named Wallace Breen, who had been appointed by the leadership commitee which managed the company affairs since it's founding. Immediately upon his appointment, the Black Mesa Leadership Commitee was dismantled and reformed in to a more cohesive board of directors, rather than being a loose group of investors, scientists, and departmental representatives. This decision to leave the investors and other prominent figures ouf of the leadership process created significant controversy, especially among the chief scientists who fealt as if they were cheated out of a fair and democratic administration. The establishment of the Black Mesa Board of Directors did not quell concerns of fair leadership among the company in the way that Breen had intended it to. 

!!! quote "Archived Excerpt From a Young Administrator Breen to an Unnamed Member of the Black Mesa Board of Directors."
    "I hope that your wife and your kids are doing well. I have to thank you for having me and my Fiance over for dinner on Monday, I hope you got a good impression of her (as abrasive as she may seem.) I'd like to offer you an extension to what I talked about during that dinner, and that is that I don't believe we will see much cooperation from the Science Team, now that we've consolidated our leadership. My secretary says that she has been hearing murmurings of a potential "off the books" meeting with the investors. That can't be allowed to happen, so, I've had a few ideas on how we will fix this problem. I'd prefer to discuss them in person, do write back when you can..." 
